Al Jazeera Media Network (AJMN; Arabic: الجزيرة, romanized: Al-Jazīrah [æl (d)ʒæˈziːrɐ], lit. 'The Island' or 'The Peninsula') is a private-media conglomerate headquartered in Wadi Al Sail, Doha. It is partially funded by the Qatari government. The network's flagship channels include Al Jazeera Arabic and Al Jazeera English, which cover regional and international news, alongside the digital platform AJ+. Al Jazeera broadcasts in 150 countries and territories and has a global audience of 430 million people.
Originally conceived as a satellite TV channel delivering Arabic news and current affairs, Al Jazeera has since evolved into a multifaceted media network encompassing various platforms such as online, specialized television channels in numerous languages, and more. The network's news operation currently has 70 bureaus around the world that are shared between the network's channels and operations, making it one of the largest collections of bureaus among media companies globally.
AJMN receives public funding from the Qatari government. While critics often view Al Jazeera Arabic as being influenced by Qatar's foreign policy, Al Jazeera English is seen as editorially independent. The network has often been targeted by foreign governments upset with its reporting. During the Qatar diplomatic crisis, several Arab countries severed diplomatic ties with Qatar and imposed a blockade. One of their demands was the closure of Al Jazeera. Other media networks have spoken out against this demand.

History
Launch
The original Al Jazeera Satellite Channel was launched on 1 November 1996 under an "independent public corporation" called "The Al Jazeera Satellite Network", founded by then-Emir of Qatar Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani. The emir provided a loan of approximately $150 million, which theoretically was meant to be repaid within five years. By 2001, however, Al Jazeera had failed to become profitable, and only covered about 35% to 40% of its costs on its own. At this point, the emir extended the loan indefinitely, and as of 2009 he covered more than $100 million in losses per year for Al Jazeera Arabic's operations. In 2005 the network was described by observers as "both private and public", but ultimately "government owned" and "dependent on government handouts". The creation of the new Arabic news network followed Emir Hamad's successful bloodless coup ousting his father, Khalifa bin Hamad Al Thani, and was one of the steps meant to enhance the global and regional influence of Qatar, as well as to counter Saudi and Egyptian narratives trying to undermine the legitimacy of the new emir. 
Shortly before the launch of the first Al Jazeera Arabic channel, the first BBC Arabic language television station was closed due to disputes over editorial freedoms between its Saudi financial sponsors and BBC editors. 150 of the BBC-trained and politically active editors were hired by Al Jazeera to build the professional core of its news team. This enabled the channel to achieve greater professionalism than local rivals in terms of both presentation and journalistic content.
Al Jazeera's first day on air was 1 November 1996. It offered six hours of programming per day, which would increase to 12 hours by the end of 1997. It was broadcast to the immediate area as a terrestrial signal, and on cable, as well as through satellites (which was also free to users in the Arab world). 1 January 1999 was Al Jazeera's first day of 24-hour broadcasting. Employment had more than tripled in one year to 500 employees, and the agency had bureaus at a dozen sites as far as EU and Russia. Its annual budget was estimated at $25 million at the time.

Beginning of English-language operations and 2006 restructuring
According to one of the central architects of Al Jazeera English, Steve Clark, the decision to invest substantially in a new English-language network solidified in then-Emir Hamad bin Khalifa's mind in 2003, around a desire to clear Al Jazeera's name in the West, at a time of increasing scrutiny and criticism over the programming of Al Jazeera in Arabic. Hamad and other officials had reportedly grown tired of discussions of Al Jazeera occupying an overwhelming portion of the day-to-day operations of Qatari foreign affairs, and decided that reining in the Arabic channel would never satisfy Western policymakers. Instead, they would start a new, separate channel, independent from the rest of Al Jazeera, to "represent Al Jazeera's brand and reputation to the world".
In October 2004 it was announced that the new station would launch under the name "Al Jazeera International". The leaders of this new project, at times nicknamed the "British Boys Network", at times made statement trying to differentiate it from the rest of the network which were seen as disparaging the existing brand as "anti-Western", "anti-US" and more. Amidst difficulties in securing distribution deals in the Western world, Al Jazeera hired PR firm Brown Lloyd James to, among other things, "promote the channel's complete editorial independence from its sister Arabic channel". While the channel was initially meant to launch by the end of 2004, its expanding mission to "take on the global news establishment" lead to it being granted an extra year to build itself up, but this too was delayed. By the end of 2005, Four bureau chiefs and hundreds of journalists were receiving salaries, with no launch date in sight. Overall, the launch of what would come to be called Al Jazeera English cost the emir more than $1 Billion.
Amid growing resentment and anger from the original Arabic channel towards the growing English-language project, in early 2006 Al Jazeera's board of directors eventually stepped in and restructured all of the channels into the "Al Jazeera Network" (AJN). Hamad bin Thamer Al Thani, chairman of the board and cousin of Emir Hamad, appointed Wadah Khanfar, then director of Al Jazeera Arabic, to be the director general of the entire Al Jazeera Network. Paul Gibbs, the director of programming, resigned soon after, citing competing "visions for the channel". Later, Ibrahim Helal, previously editor-in-chief of Al Jazeera Arabic, was appointed to a senior leadership role in Al Jazeera International. Statements by various senior leaders of the new project seemed to indicate that Al Jazeera International was no longer on course to be an independent entity, but rather under the director of the Arabic channel. Helal further delayed the launching of the channel to do some reorganizing, and in October 2006, just one month before launch, he demanded that its name be changed from "Al Jazeera International" to "Al Jazeera English", so as not to suggest that it is more important than Al Jazeera Arabic. The channel was eventually launched as Al Jazeera Arabic on November 15, 2006, to coincide with the 10th anniversary of the launch of Al Jazeera Arabic.
Original managing director Nigel Parsons and director of news Steve Clark both left the channel within one and a half years of its launch. According to Historian of Al Jazeera Shawn Powers, "the initial Qatari design to launch a news network independent from the Arabic channels origins had failed".

Al Jazeera and the 2011 Arab Spring
Al Jazeera covered the Arab spring more than other news outlets, and had a significant role in spreading the Arab uprising.
People in the Middle East have heavily relied on Al Jazeera to obtain news about their regions and the world, even more so than on YouTube and Google. Hillary Clinton, who at the time of the Arab Spring was the U.S. Secretary of State, stated that Al Jazeera "has been the leader in that [it is] literally changing people's minds and attitudes. And like it or hate it, it is really effective."
The news of unrest in the Arab states was broadcast by Al Jazeera in Arabic for the Arab world as well as in English for audiences from the rest of the world.
In Tunisia, the Ben Ali regime banned Al Jazeera from operating in the country, but with the help of Facebook users inside Tunisia, Al Jazeera was able to receive reports from events such as protests and government crackdowns that were taking place inside the country. The intensive media coverage by Al Jazeera of people's uprising against their leaders mobilized more people from other parts of the country to join the revolution.
The population in other Arab countries such as Bahrain, Egypt, Yemen, Libya and Syria also mobilized against their governments, influenced by the Tunisians' successful revolt which was extensively covered by Al Jazeera in Arabic. International opinion also came to support the Arab movements in the Middle East, in no small part since Al Jazeera English covered and reported governmental human rights abuses against political activists and even ordinary citizens in the Middle East.

2011 Restructuring
In 2011, Al Jazeera announced a legal and organizational restructuring in which the broadcaster's status was changed from a public institution to a "private institution of public utility" under Law No. 10, issued by the Emir of Qatar, Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani. As part of this change, it was renamed to Al Jazeera Media Network. According to Al Jazeera, the restructuring was intended to provide greater administrative flexibility and a faster decision-making process. Under the new framework, the emir appoints the chairman and members of the board of directors, determines the duration of their terms and their remuneration, and assigns them tasks. The emir also approves the annual budget, receives reports on the network's activities, and retains the authority to amend the articles of association or dissolve the institution.

Subsidiaries
Al Jazeera Arabic
Al Jazeera Arabic was launched on November 1, 1996 by the new Emir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani after the successful ouster of his father, Khalifa bin Hamad Al Thani, in a bloodless palace coup. This move is frequently seen as having been intended to enhance the global and regional influence of Qatar, as well as to counter Saudi and Egyptian narratives trying to undermine the legitimacy of the new emir.
Shortly before its launch, BBC Arabic Television shut down due to censorship disagreements with its Saudi partner. Many former BBC Arabic journalists joined Al Jazeera, bringing Western-style investigative journalism to the Arab world. Following this, Al Jazeera has been noted for its relatively high level of journalistic professionalism, especially when contrasted with other Arab news organizations of the time.
Al Jazeera gained popularity in the Arab world as an alternative to the previous landscape of largely local state-owned broadcasters, with its early coverage hosting a wide range of viewpoints and being openly critical of autocratic leaders in the region, with the exception of its Qatari hosts. It gained much credibility through its extensive frontline coverage of the Second Intifada and the Iraq War. According to Al Jazeera officials, Al Jazeera Arabic is editorially independent from Al Jazeera English, although the two share the same "editorial vision". While the news network insists on its editorial independence, it is widely seen by media scholars and foreign governments as a tool of soft power and outright propaganda for Qatar.

Al Jazeera English
Al Jazeera English (AJE) was launched on November 15, 2006 as the English-language counterpart to Al Jazeera Arabic. It positions itself as an alternative media platform to the dominance of Western media outlets like CNN and BBC, focusing on narrative reporting where subjects present their own stories. Al Jazeera is known for its in-depth and frontline reporting, particularly in conflict zones such as the Arab Spring, the Gaza–Israel conflict and others. Al Jazeera's coverage of the Arab Spring won the network numerous awards, including the Peabody Award.
Between March and November 2001, Al Jazeera was the sole international news network broadcasting from Kabul, Afghanistan, which led to Al Jazeera becoming better known in the English-speaking world after the events of 9/11. For a while, it was the only network reporting from the Taliban-controlled parts of Afghanistan during US air attacks, and it was the first network to broadcast recordings of Osama Bin Laden.  There was a notable surge in demand for an English-language version of Al Jazeera. Consequently, the network began considering the establishment of an English-language service.

In late 2002, the director of marketing of Al Jazeera, Ali Mohamed Kama began to push a "repositioning" of Al Jazeera, "accompanied by the introduction of English subtitles and dubbing of broadcast into English."
In 2003, Al Jazeera hired its first English-language journalists, among whom was Afshin Rattansi, from the BBC's Today programme.
In March 2003, it launched an English-language website (see below). The name of the website was "Al Jazeera Net"; it was launched by younger journalists. The site published various stories covered by the network, but it did not depend on Arabic-language channels and websites. The website aimed to connect to the Western audience, cooperate with BBC, and be "a global citizen's home page."
However, twelve hours after the launch of the website, "Al Jazeera Net" was kept offline due to many denial of service attacks. Over twenty-four hours later, "Al Jazeera Net" came back online however, Freedom Cyber Force Militia hacked the website to redirect web browsers to a picture of the American flag with a slogan saying "Let Freedom Ring". "Al Jazeera Net" was then unable to be securely hosted because three of Al Jazeera's web providers, Horizons Media, Information Services, and Akamai Technologies canceled the contract. Also in March, Yahoo and AOL stopped advertising contracts with Al Jazeera. Therefore, the English-translated website was put off later in 2003.
On 4 July 2005 Al Jazeera officially announced plans to launch a new English-language satellite service to be called Al Jazeera International. The new channel started at 12h GMT on 15 November 2006 under the name Al Jazeera English and launched with broadcast centers in Doha (next to the original Al Jazeera headquarters and broadcast center), London, Kuala Lumpur and Washington D.C. Initially, 12 hours of news a day were broadcast from Doha, and the rest of the day's output was split equally between London, Kuala Lumpur, and Washington D.C. Among its staff were journalists hired from ABC's Nightline and other top news outfits. Josh Rushing, a former media handler for CENTCOM during the Iraq war, agreed to provide commentary; David Frost was also on board.
The new English-language venture faced considerable regulatory and commercial hurdles in the North American market for its perceived sympathy with extremist causes. The channel eventually secured carriage on a small number of cable systems in the United States, including one in Washington, D.C.
On 26 November 2009, Al Jazeera English received approval from the CRTC, enabling it to broadcast via satellite in Canada.

Al Jazeera Turk
In February 2011, the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund of Turkey put Cine5 up for sale after the channel was confiscated when the owner Erol Aksoy went in debt and became bankrupt. Al Jazeera made a bid for the network and acquired it for $40.5 million after an unsuccessful $21 million bid. Al Jazeera then renamed the channel and worked on launching a Turkish language Al Jazeera operation.
In April 2012, there were reports of the channel being delayed over its refusal to call the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) as terrorists, despite it being designated as a terrorist organization by many countries and supranational organisations including but not limited to Turkey, the United States, the EU, NATO, Israel, the United Kingdom, citing journalistic standards. The Foreign Ministry, who advocated the project, became at odds with the channel. Vural Ak, a major Turkish investor, withdrew from the partnership with Al Jazeera. Nuh Yilmaz, head of Al Jazeera's Turkish editorial team, also resigned.
In 2013 they announced the creation of Al Jazeera Türk, a version of Al Jazeera in the Turkish language(s), stationed in Istanbul, and catering to and broadcasting around Turkey. On January 22, 2014, Al Jazeera Türk's website was launched with news content. The move made Al Jazeera Türk the first 24-hour news operation to go digital before broadcast. The channel was under construction with plans to launch towards the end of 2014. Construction and indoor works were underway at the upcoming channel's building in Topkapı, İstanbul. The website shut down in 2017 without the channel being launched.

Al Jazeera America
Al Jazeera America was an American version of Al Jazeera English. The channel launched on 20 August 2013 exclusively on cable and satellite systems in the United States.
On 2 January 2013, Al Jazeera Media Network announced that it purchased Current TV from its founders Al Gore, Joel Hyatt, and Ronald Burkle, in the United States and would be launching an American news channel. Originally 60% of the channel's programming would be produced in America while 40% would be from Al Jazeera English, which later changed to almost all the content being U.S. originated.
Though Current TV had large distribution throughout the United States on cable and satellite TV, it averaged only 28,000 viewers at any time. The acquisition of Current TV by Al Jazeera allowed Time Warner Cable to drop the network due to its low ratings, but released a statement saying that they would consider carrying the channel after they evaluated whether it made sense for their customers. The channel was later added to Time Warner and Bright House Networks lineups after a new carriage deal was agreed upon.
On January 13, 2016, Al Jazeera America CEO Al Anstey announced that the network would cease operations on April 12, 2016, citing the "economic landscape". The Al Jazeera English news channel became available digitally in the US in September, 2016.

AJ+
Al Jazeera Media Network also has a digital online-only news channel AJ+. The channel is an online and mobile-only news channel primarily found on various social media networks and YouTube and operated by Al Jazeera New Media out of Washington, D.C. (previously San Francisco, California). The channel consists of mostly On Demand content. It soft-launched on 13 June 2014 with a new webpage, Facebook page and videos on YouTube. The full channel launched with an app on 15 September 2014. There are also Arabic and Spanish language versions of the channel.

Al Jazeera Sport
In 2004 Al Jazeera expanded into the world of sports with the establishment of Al Jazeera Sport (now known as beIN Sports) and the building of 8 Arabic language specialty sports channels.
On 1 January 2014, Al Jazeera Sport was renamed beIN Sports after it along with all of the organisation's non-news and current affairs assets were spun off and privatised into beIN Media Group; the channels were legally spun off to have consistency with all the Network's sports properties. According to Kate O'Brian, President of Al Jazeera America, Al Jazeera Sport revenue helped fund the network when it was in operation similar to how BBC Worldwide helps fund the BBC.

JeemTV and Baraem
On September 9, 2005, Al Jazeera established a children's division with the launch of Al Jazeera Children's Channel (since 2013 it was known as JeemTV). The channel targets an audience of 7 to 15-year-olds and broadcasts 24 hours a day.
On January 16, 2009, Baraem launched, the channel targets an audience of three to seven-year-olds and broadcasts 17 hours a day (6 am to 11 pm Doha time).

On April 1, 2016, both JeemTV and Baraem were acquired by beIN Media Group and were made part of beIN Channels Network. Since then, as a result, the channels were no longer free to view and made exclusive to beIN Channels Network.

Online
The network operates Aljazeera.com, which is the main website for Al Jazeera English, Al Jazeera Balkans and the former Al Jazeera America web sites.  Aljazeera.net host its Arabic language properties, and Aljazeera.tr its Turkish language properties.
On January 1, 2018, Al Jazeera launched a Mandarin-language news website becoming the first Middle Eastern news provider to target the Chinese audience. The staff of the project is in contact with their audience via Chinese social media like Weibo, Meipai and WeChat.

Al Jazeera Podcasts
In 2017, the network launched a podcasting network called Jetty. Later renamed Al Jazeera Podcasts, the network is available via the network's website as well as SoundCloud, Apple Podcasts, Stitcher, TuneIn, and iHeartRadio. The network is based out of San Francisco alongside AJ+ and is available in English. Jetty debuted with the podcast Closer Than They Appear, a hybrid interview/narrative show hosted by writer Carvell Wallace. Other podcasts that debuted in 2018 included The Game of Our Lives which uses soccer to explain global economics and cultures, a podcast on freedom dubbed (Freedom Stories, featuring Melissa Harris-Perry), sex (The Virgie Show) with Virgie Tovar, and global music (Movement) with Meklit Hadero.

Rightly
In 2021, the network launched Rightly, an online news channel aimed at center-right American conservatives. The channel much like AJ+ is only available online, primarily on YouTube. The launch of the channel spurred questions from Al Jazeera staff questioning if the channel took away from Al Jazeera's mission to be non-partisan and from various media critics wondering if conservative audiences would watch a channel from Al Jazeera, a long time target of American conservatives.

Al Jazeera Center for Studies
Al Jazeera Media Network owns and operates the Al Jazeera Center for Studies Al Jazeera Center for Studies. Established in 2006, the Al Jazeera Center for Studies conducts in-depth analysis of current affairs at both regional and global levels. Its research agenda focuses primarily on geopolitics and strategic developments in the Arab world and surrounding regions. The center with an extensive network of distinguished researchers, and a wide range array of experts from across the globe, the center aims to promote dialogue and build bridges of mutual understanding and cooperation between cultures, civilizations, and religions. The center also contains the Al Jazeera Media Training and Development Center.

Al Jazeera International Documentary Film Festival
The Al Jazeera International Documentary Film Festival is an annual film festival held at the Doha Sheraton in Doha, Qatar. The first festival was held on 18 April 2005. Every year the festival has a different theme.
The Al Jazeera Balkans Documentary Film Festival was started in 2018 as an annual international documentary film festival based in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Other channels
Al Jazeera Media Network also operates Al Jazeera Documentary Channel, an Arabic language documentary channel; and Al Jazeera Mubasher, a live politics and public interest channel which broadcasts conferences in real time without editing or commentary. Al Jazeera Mubasher is first channel of its kind in the Middle East.

Partnerships
In 2017, Al Jazeera signed a strategic partnership agreement with Google. In 2019, Al Jazeera signed a partnership agreement with the China Intercontinental Communication Center over Al Jazeera's documentary channel with the aim of expanding its documentary content through co-production and exchange of media. The same year, Al Jazeera and Bloomberg signed a content license agreement. In 2021, Al Jazeera partnered with Arewa 24 to provide its content in Hausa. In 2023, Al Jazeera partnered with Avid Technology.

Al Jazeera effect
The "Al Jazeera effect" is the impact of Al Jazeera Media Network on global politics. It reduces the monopoly governments and mainstream media have on information, empowering groups that previously lacked a global voice.
Al Jazeera aimed to counter government censorship and the dominant Western viewpoint of Arabs. The term, coined by Philip Seib and possibly used earlier by Simon Henderson, initially referred to Arab governments losing control of information due to Al Jazeera's popularity. Seib later generalized it to other Internet-powered news media.
Al Jazeera challenges authoritarian governments by stimulating discussion and providing multiple perspectives, acting as the "voice of the voiceless." It shifted the flow of information from the "West to the rest," reporting on underrepresented countries and offering a platform for Arab citizens' expression. Critics acknowledge its role in reforms during the 2005 Arab Spring. It has been compared to the CNN effect. Seib concludes that the new media, while not beyond being abused, are largely contributing to democratization and political reform worldwide.

Editorial independence
AJMN receives public funding from the Qatar, and is chartered as a "private foundation for public benefit" under Qatari law. The Qatar cabinet nominates the network's leaders, who are then appointed by the emir. Some scholars and media outlets argued that the government of Qatar has a degree of editorial influence over its content, particularly over its Arabic language reporting. However, AJMN maintains that "its reporting is not directed or controlled by the Qatari government nor does it reflect any government viewpoint." While there is evidence supporting Al Jazeera's claims of editorial independence, the network enjoys only relative autonomy: it is not fully government-controlled, yet it remains government-owned and provides only sparse and uncritical coverage of domestic Qatari affairs.
Critics have argued that its Arabic-language coverage in particular is influenced by Qatari foreign policy, often framing events in ways favourable to the government's aims, such as its coverage of the Iraq War and the Arab Spring. It has been alleged that in its domestic Arabic-language coverage, criticism of the ruling Qatari regime is censored. Its reporting on domestic issues in Qatar regarding the Al Thani Royal Family and internal Qatari affairs—such as the country's treatment of domestic workers, most recently during the 2022 World Cup games—has also been scrutinized. Other authors have argued that while "Al Jazeera may have been founded with the idea of giving Qatar influence", Al Jazeera Mubasher Misr (Al Jazeera Live from Egypt) and Al Jazeera Arabic have been subject to an "Islamist takeover", which has led to occasional divergences between their coverage and the foreign policy interests of Qatar. Most sources agree that Al Jazeera's English- language reporting is more objective and independent than its Arabic-language reporting. Al Jazeera English has developed its own internal editorial guidelines and is editorially independent from Al Jazeera Arabic.

Bans and restrictions
Several Algerian cities lost power on 27 January 1999, reportedly to keep residents from watching a program in which Algerian dissidents implicated the Algerian military in a series of massacres. On 4 July 2004, the Algerian government froze the activities of Al Jazeera's Algerian correspondent. The official reason was that a reorganization of the work of foreign correspondents was in progress. According to Reporters Without Borders, however, the measure was a reprisal for a broadcast the previous week of another Al-Itijah al-Mouakiss debate on the political situation in Algeria.
Bahrain Information Minister Nabeel bin Yaqub Al-Hamar banned Al Jazeera correspondents from reporting from inside the country on 10 May 2002, saying that the station was biased towards Israel and against Bahrain. After improvements in relations between Bahrain and Qatar in 2004, Al Jazeera correspondents returned to Bahrain. In 2010, however, the Information Ministry again banned Al Jazeera correspondents from reporting inside the country. The ministry accused the network of "flouting [Bahrain's] laws regulating the press and publishing" after Al Jazeera aired a report on poverty in Bahrain.
Al Jazeera has been banned three times by the Iraqi government, most recently in 2016 where officials accused it of "inciting violence and sectarianism." Iraqi authorities had long perceived Al Jazeera's media coverage as hostile to Iraq's Shi'ite majority and too friendly toward the Islamic State. In 2013, the broadcaster was accused by many Iraqi government supporters of backing Arab spring protests in the country.
The UAE blocked Al Jazeera in the emirates on 5 June 2017 (after the onset of the Qatar diplomatic crisis) because the organization was a state-endowed entity of the Qatari government and they claimed that Qatar was "a major sponsor of hate speech through Al Jazeera's Arabic-language network and its other state-controlled media entities." In the International Court of Justice case filed by Qatar against the United Arab Emirates about the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination (Qatar v. United Arab Emirates), Qatar requested that the court order the UAE to suspend its block of Al Jazeera. The court ruled, "both parties shall refrain from any action which might aggravate or extend the dispute before the court or make it more difficult to resolve".
In May 2019, Sudan closed Al Jazeera's office. Sudan summoned its envoy in Qatar for consultation the following month, saying that the envoy would soon return to Qatar. Qatar was seen as a close ally of ousted Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir.
Israel banned Al Jazeera in May 2024, forcing their offices in the country to close. In September 2024, the IDF ordered the closure of the Al Jazeera Office in Ramallah, considering it a threat to national security. At the start of 2025, the Palestinian Authority suspended Qatar's Al Jazeera TV broadcasts from The West Bank, claiming it shows "inciting material." Both the culture, interior and communications ministers of the authority were cited by WAFA that the channel broadcast material that was "deceiving and stirring strife."

See also
Al Jazeera America (defunct)
Al Jazeera effect

Notes
References
Works cited
Abdul-Nabi, Zainab (2022). Al-Jazeera's "Double Standards" in the Arab Spring: A Peace Journalism Analysis (2011-2021). Palgrave Macmillan. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-14279-6. ISBN 978-3031142789.

External links

Official website