"Black Velvet" is a song written by Canadian songwriters Christopher Ward and David Tyson and recorded by Canadian singer-songwriter Alannah Myles. It was released in July 1989 as the second single from Myles' first studio album, Alannah Myles (1989), by Atlantic Records.
"Black Velvet" became a number-one hit on the US Billboard Hot 100 and reached number one on the Billboard Album Rock Tracks chart, as well as number 10 in Myles' native Canada. Outside North America, the song peaked at number two on the UK Singles Chart and reached number one in Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland, becoming a top-10 hit in 16 countries altogether. It contains blues verses with a rock chorus. The accompanying music video was directed by Doug Freel and partially shot on Myles's family ranch.
Myles won the 1991 Grammy for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance for the song and the 1990 Juno Award for Single of the Year. Since its release, the song has received substantial airplay, receiving a "Millionaire Award" from ASCAP in 2005 for more than four million radio plays.

Background and writing
The song is a paean to Elvis Presley. His voice was distinctive for the time and could be described as "black velvet". Co-writer Christopher Ward, who was Myles' then-boyfriend, was inspired on a bus full of Elvis fans riding to Memphis attending the 10th anniversary vigil (marking the ten year mark since Elvis's death) at Graceland, in the summer of  1987. Upon his return to Canada, he brought his idea to Myles and producer David Tyson, who wrote the chords for the bridge. The song was one of three in a demo Myles presented to Atlantic Records, which eventually got her signed to the label.
Atlantic Records also gave the song to country artist Robin Lee to record. In the United States, Myles' version was released in December 1989, while Lee's version was released two months later in February 1990. This led to Myles being promoted by Atlantic on the pop and rock radio stations, and Lee on the country radio stations.
Myles released a new version of the song on a digitally released Elvis tribute EP in August 2007 to commemorate the 30 years since his death. It was later included on her 2008 Black Velvet CD.
The song is performed in the key of E♭ minor, with a swinging tempo of 92 beats per minute in 68 time. Myles' lead vocals span from E♭3 to E♭5 in the song.

Reception
Critical reception
Music & Media described the song as "a blues ballad featuring some straight-from-the-heart vocals from Myles and inspired guitar playing".

Commercial reception
As the second single of Myles' debut album, it was first released in her native Canada in July 1989. It peaked at number 10 in September of that year, becoming the first of four top-10 hits for Myles in her homeland. Worldwide, it was released as Myles' debut single. It was released in the United States in December 1989 and worldwide in early 1990, becoming a top-10 hit in most countries where it was released. It peaked at number one in four countries: Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States and received gold and platinum discs in several countries. This was her biggest hit in the US, leading to her being seen as a one-hit wonder there.

Music video
The music video for "Black Velvet", directed by Doug Freel, was partially shot on Myles's family ranch in Buckhorn, Ontario. Myles is seen singing on a cabin porch with her guitarist, Kurt Schefter (Raving Mojos), intercut with scenes from Myles in concert with her band. The concert scene was filmed in Kingston, Ontario, in a bar called Stages.

Track listings
CD maxi
"Black Velvet" – 4:40
"If You Want To" – 4:11
"Who Loves You" – 3:36
7-inch single
"Black Velvet" – 4:02
"If You Want To" – 4:11
12-inch maxi
"Black Velvet" – 4:40
"If You Want To" – 4:11
"Who Loves You" – 3:36

Charts
Certifications
Release history
Other versions
American country music artist Robin Lee, also signed to Atlantic at the time, covered "Black Velvet" in 1990 on her third studio album, also titled Black Velvet. Lee's version peaked at No. 12 on the US Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks (now Hot Country Songs) chart.
Idols South Africa winner Anke Pietrangeli covered the song on her album Tribute to the Great Female Vocalists in 2009.
In 2015, Canadian heavy metal band Kobra and the Lotus recorded the song for their first EP, entitled Words of the Prophets.
In 2021, X Factor winner Sam Bailey recorded the song as her rock debut. The song was released through independent record label Saga Entertainment on August 6, 2021. The song peaked at number one on the Amazon best sellers chart.
In 2022, the Israeli psychedelic trance duo, Infected Mushroom, released a cover of the song featuring Ninet Tayeb. It was released through record label Monstercat and is featured on Infected Mushroom's IM25 album.

Chart performance for Robin Lee version
In popular culture
The song was featured in Grand Theft Auto V as a song on "Los Santos Rock Radio."

See also
List of Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles of 1990
List of European number-one airplay songs of the 1990s


== References ==